Active Directory Migration Tool - Preparation
2012-11-19
Michael Spence



Topics of Discussion:

	Evalutate the new AD forest structure
	Assign Domain Object Roles and Locations
	Plan for group migration
	Plan for text migrations
	Create a rollback Plan
	Create and End-user communication path
	Create Migration Account Groups
	Install ADMT
	Plan for Service Account Transistioning


Topics in Details:

1. Evalutate the new AD forest structure

	Source Domain:		darwin.apeagers.com.au

	Target Domain:		apeagers.com.au

	Target OU:		CN=Darwin

	Target Structure:	All OUs from source replicated to Target OU


2. Assign Domain Object Roles and Locations

	Roles for basic items to remain same.

	DC's to be decommissioned.

	New DC's to be built to replace

	FS's to be migrated manually

3. Plan for group migration

	All Groups in Darwin domain to become universal

	Distribution Groups to be deleted

4. Plan for test migrations

	Test migration will include a FS and 2x PCs on darwin and 1xPC on apeagers
	A number (two) of Test Users and some security groups
	FS will have security group'ed shares
	First migration test will be to migrate the groups, the users
	Check to see if users can log on to apeagers and if FS still available
 	Second migratoin test with one PC off and one on migrate the PC's
	Check to see if computer migrates at boot or reboot
	Checks to see if users can still access shared folders
	Third migration to migrate the FS
	Check again to see if users can access shared folders
	Test to check re-migration from APEagers back to Darwin
	

5. Create a rollback Plan

	Migrate FS's back to Darwin
	Migrate PC's back to Darwin
	Migrate Users back to Darwin
	Finally Migrate Groups Back to Darwin


6. Create and End-user communication path

	Personnell to be on-siet:
		Hup-Ming
		James Peter
		Michael Spence

	Memo to all staff describing that Monday users will log onto APEagers domain
	Computers to be left on, on the Friday or Saturday night, whichever is their last day before Sunday
	Personal communication with DP and FC when cutover is complete and successful (or if failed)


7. Create Migration Account Groups

	There will only be one account performing the migration... mine


8. Install ADMT

	Download "SQL Server 2005 Express" (ensure SP3 version)
	Install "SQL Server" 
	Add an instance ADMT (using admtdb.exe??)


9. Plan for Service Account Transistioning

	No Service Accounts are expected to exist.  This step will be skipped
