Microsoft 365 - Reset Your Password
2011-06-17
Michael Spence


Audience:

This document is intended for all APEagers users, who use the Microsoft 365 system.


Preamble:

With the new internet based Mail system, each user has their own mailbox which has its own password.  From time to time, users will be required to change their password.  To do this, the user must log onto the web portal and follow the simple instructions listed in this document.


Method:

Start Internet Explorer and as shown in the following image go to the following address:

	https://portal.microsoftonline.com

[INSERT STEP 1 IMAGE]

As shown below, you will be prompted to enter your user name and password.  Your user name will be your standard windows login name @ your email domain address.  Now this can sound a little complicated, but it is really quite easy to work out.  Ask your self these questions:

1- What name do I use to log onto my computer?  This is your login name
2- What's my email address?  Everything after the "@" symbol is your email domain

For example, lets say we have a user Jane Doe.  Jane logs onto her computer everymorning with the username jdoe and her email address is jane.doe@someplace.com.au.  To log onto the portal, Jane needs to type her user name as "jdoe@someplace.com.au"

If you can't figure out your login name, please ring Helpdesk and ask for assistance.

[INSERT STEP 2 IMAGE] 

When you login, you will be presented with an overview of you email account.  It looks something like the image below.

[INSERT STEP 3 IMAGE]

Up in the top right corner of this page, your name is displayed.  Directly beneath your name is a link "My Profile".  Click this link and you will be directed to the "My Profile" page which looks like the image below.

[INSERT STEP 4 IMAGE

Beside the big orange title "My Profile" there is a smaller light-blue "Change Password" link.  By clicking this link you will be taken to the "Change Password" screen, as shown below.

[INSERT STEP 5 IMAGE]

Re-enter your current password as directed and then enter your NEW password into the two "new" password fields.  You will have to make a complex password.  (A password with one Capital Letter, two Numbers and is eight characters long is sufficiently strong in Microsoft's opinion)
